Who are the princes that are to be a hiding place from the wind?
And who will the princes be in the future?
Isaiah 321, it says look, a king will reign for righteousness, and
princes will rule for justice, and then our text for today, and each one will be like a hiding place from the wind, a place of concealment from the rain storm.
Well, in our publications, most often the application of the king is Christ Jesus, and
His reign for righteousness began in 1914.
Well, who are the princes?
Well, we've consistently indicated that these are the appointed elders in the congregation since 1914.
And as our text indicated under Jesus' direction, they are to be a hiding place from the wind and rainstorms of Satan's depressing system.
But volume 1 of Isaiah prophecy book chapter 25 says, right now, in this time of world of stress, there is a need for princess.
Yes, elders who will pay attention to all the flock, such princes must meet the qualifications set out in 1 Timothy 3 through 7, the qualifications for elders.
So who will the princes be in the future after Armageddon?
Well, just a few sentences later, Isaiah prophecy volume 1 says,
princes, elders who are of the other sheep are being trained as a developing chieftain class, so that after the great tribulation qualified ones from among them.
So not all elders, but from among them will be ready for appointment to serve in an administrative capacity in the new earth, and then it sites Ezekiel 44, the vision of the chieftain class.
Well, the Hebrew word for prince and chieftain basically makes them synonymous.
So who would be of the chieftain class in the new world, princes after Armageddon?
Well, find Psalm 45 16 with me, Psalm 45, this again mentions a king in princes, well, who will these princes be?
If you glance at verse 15, it mentions the king's palace, but then in verse 16 it says,
your, so the kings, your sons will take the place of your forefathers, you will appoint them as princes in all the earth.
Well, when Jesus was on earth, his forefathers were faithful men of old Abraham, Isaac, David, and the like.
So in the future, when he resurrects them to a paradise earth, they in effect become his sons.
So some princes that will have this administrative capacity in the new earth come from those faithful men of old after the resurrected.
However, the book Holy Spirit, the force behind the coming new order said this, there are already be princes on earth before them.
So before the faithful men of old are resurrected, who it says, those men from among the great crowd of tribulation survivors,
who have been appointed as such at the start of the new world, and then it cites Isaiah 32 of text.
So who will these be, helpers of the governing body, branch committee members, circuit over serious?
Did you notice I'm 45 16 said you will appoint them as princes.
So those who will be princes in the new earth will be appointed by Jesus when they're needed.
One publication said, after Armageddon, we can be confident that Christ will see to it the right men are appointed to represent the kingdom government for he will be taking a direct hand in earth affairs.
And similarly, the 2006 watchtower said, since Jesus Christ himself will appoint the princely representatives.
So we look forward to that glorious time.
But now we'd like to change directions a little bit.
As we said, we usually infer that Isaiah 32, 1 through 2 is the responsibility of elders that meet the qualifications in 1st Timothy 3, 2 through 4.
So we invite you to turn there to 1st Timothy 3, and we're going to start with verse 2.
But my question is directed to you sisters.
For your age and time and the truth, if you had been born a male, would you currently be a ministerial servant or elder?
You might be thinking, what kind of a question is that? I'm not a male, I'm a female, I'm happy, and 1st Timothy 3 does not apply to me.
Well, let's look back at the verses.
You'll see that these are not strictly male oriented qualifications.
They're basic Christian qualifications, 1st Timothy 2, 3, and 4.
If we made a similar statement about Christian women, would it make sense?
Now, I'm not going to misquote scripture.
I'm just going to take this list and turn it into a statement for Christian sisters.
Does it still make sense?
The Christian woman should therefore be irreprehensible.
A wife of one husband, moderate inhabits, sound in mind, orderly, hospitable, qualified to teach,
not a drunkard, not violent, but reasonable, not quarrelsome, not a level of money,
a woman presiding over her own household in a fine manner.
We see that statement makes sense for sisters too, doesn't it?
Now, some sisters may say, well, you know, young brothers,
they're always being encouraged to reach out to be ministerial servants.
And ministerial servants, usually a couple of times a year, they're reviewed
to see if they match the qualifications of an elder to a reasonable degree.
And if they don't, usually some point the elders are there encouraging them to improve,
but as a sister, I never get that kind of encouragement to improve to reach out.
Well, if you think about the sisters in your congregation,
isn't it true that they're at different levels of Christian progress?
Some are beautiful examples of mature Christian sisters who meet these qualifications very well.
Others could improve.
Well, 35 years ago, there were two married sisters who were pining on our congregation,
and they were excellent example of Christian women.
They were good students and teachers of the Bible.
Extremely hospitable.
And when someone was sick or in the hospital, they were at their side supportive.
A younger sister had a struggle with her ministry or with her children.
They were right there encouraging with sage advice.
And they were very submissive.
They didn't overstep a good judgment discernment.
Well, 35 years later, when their names come up in a conversation,
everyone is still benefiting from their fine example.
So sisters, no, you do not reach out for the position of overseer,
but you can reach out to enhance in yourself the 13 or 14 qualifications there in 1 Timothy 3, 2, 3, 4.
Why not take them one by one, see what our publications have said,
how we can manifest them to a greater degree?
Titus chapter 2
isn't appropriate for sisters to consider Christian qualities.
When Titus chapter 2 verse 2, it lists some qualities for men to consider.
But then verse 3 says like wise, meaning similarly, let the aged women be reverent and behave,
you're not given to wine and so forth.
So you sisters, no, you will not be appointed a princess.
But you will be highly regarded by others in the congregation and by the sovereign of the
universe, Jehovah.